[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here today with
ali brook formerly of fifth harmony now
a solo artist you my friend are a bona
fide pop star i am excited to have you
on so welcome to the show
thank you so much oh my gosh this is
awesome and i just
i can't believe that i have a book and
i'm here it's it's it's amazing so thank
you
absolutely um reading your book was
really interesting you're obviously
super raw in the book really open
and one of the things that i have been
fascinated with for a very long time is
that rise to fame that so many kids
dream about and so few actually get to
do
what was that like
oh my gosh it was crazy so in my book
i talk all about that journey and how
hard it was
you know sometimes people see artists
and they're like oh wow you know it must
have been so easy or look it came to
them so naturally and
that is usually not the case
um so for me what i what i share in the
in the book is
i started singing at nine years old and
i want to thank my third grade
elementary school teacher
for changing my life and i write about
that too
and i started saying at nine
grew up in san antonio texas
um
sang all around my city and then at 12
years old it's kind of it's a crazy
story i got discovered by dana baron who
was the original audrey in national
lampoon's vacation
and at 12
she took me um to los angeles you know
my parents and i
traveled there and
started to chase a dream at 12 years old
and it wasn't until i was 19. that i
know 18 that i really got my big break
so
from 12 to 18 i was pounding the
pavement i was
gosh
first of all just to be
barely a teenager
and going from texas to l.a was such a
culture shock for me it was uh so
different
um
i missed my family
my my pets my brother
my friends everything that was familiar
but my parents really believed in me
and i thanked them for that and
many years trying to record
music writing and just trying to
create something for years and trying to
get that goal of getting a record deal
and we had so many moments of
tears you know of things not going out
the way we planned
um so many moments of not knowing what
the next step would be
um you know even financial burden for my
parents
to
balance both livelihoods
so many doors on my face and then doors
would open and it would be amazing but
it wouldn't
uh work out the way we planned so many
things so many sacrifices and i was
dealing
with my mom and her scoliosis
and gosh just as a young girl that that
took a toll on you you know but my
parents and i we always had faith and
even when we we would just have an ounce
of belief
in the end it paid off and i got my big
break when i was 19 years old
on the x factor and of course i go into
way more detail in the book about
everything and all the
the trials i went through in those
a few years before that because it was a
lot but um
you know we just had that faith and we
never gave up and i credit my parents
for everything they're my
they're my everything they're my heart
they're my angels we talk every single
day on the phone in fact i just talked
to them uh like an hour ago
they're the best things in my life one
thing i want to talk about is you know a
lot of people have that dream of
becoming famous for some people it's a
lifelong dream and you know it's sort of
the the thing that never came true for
them what you detail really pretty
extraordinarily in the book is that
it isn't what you think it's going to be
and that it isn't like oh i got my
record deal and now there's no drama and
everything is great and it was what i
thought it was going to be um what was
the dream that kept you fighting like
what was the image that you were holding
on to in your head and then how did that
compare to when you finally signed with
fifth harmony and you guys end up
starting to get hits like what was the
the image and then the reality
um so you know when you're a young child
pursuing this dream you kind of think
oh
you're going to get signed and then you
get to make the music you you love and
then you're going to tour the world and
and everything's just going to going to
come and happen to you your life's
magically gonna change like that but for
me
my success looked very different of
course being in a girl group and i
adjusted pretty quickly and and was just
trying to have the most positive
attitude and especially what was the
difference like when you say that it was
different than what you imagined because
it was part of a girl group um obviously
you talk about this in the book but for
people that don't know the story of some
of the early difficulties
what what was it that you know created
that friction in the early days
well
it
it was a lot of things you know being
you have this image of like oh you're
going to be signed and then when um
so many
so many adversities kind of came really
quickly in fifth harmony being on x
factor i opened up about that
how my audition the show had edited it
to be a very negative
experience versus what it really was it
was such a glorious moment it was
beautiful there was no negativity from
the judges or the audience it was
amazing but on tv they made it look like
the judges were annoyed by me
that i was in it for the wrong reasons
just to be famous
and
they edited the audience to like laugh
at me and roll my eyes it's horrible um
so that right off the bat was hard and
then on x factor when we became a group
you know super self-conscious after it
aired and i was like i have to watch my
every word my every um my every facial
expression
um because the show could edit it again
and now that we're in a girl group you
know
um there's so many different
personalities i want to make sure i come
across the right way
um but one of the hardest parts about x
factor was that and then also
um
on the show right away
losing my identity and losing my voice
on the show
i wasn't given very many singing parts
when we made it to the live rounds which
was devastating for me i had worked
basically my whole life to
have my voice be heard and i didn't want
to be you know
the only one singing or anything like
that i just wanted all of us to have um
you know
a fair representation but that wasn't
the case
and then uh one day i had a little bit
of confidence to say hey can i please
you know have a little bit more lines in
the song
um
i really want to be able to show what i
can what i can do and that i can bring
something to this group along with
everyone else
and i was met by the vocal teacher being
really really mean and just saying like
you should be grateful you're here you
have a opportunity that millions of
girls would be
dying to be in kind of met with that
shame and guilt when i had
a very innocent and fair
question
and after that i was like
i'm not gonna ask again because i don't
want i cried you know right after that i
don't want to be made to feel
small and to feel like my
question is worthless so that was hard
to endure
and then um
you know with our music the first single
we ever had which is called miss moving
on
i uh open up about having one line and
one ad-lib in our very first single and
again there's so many punches being
thrown in my face with this x factor
experience and the fifth harmony and
right away i keep praying and thinking
it's gonna be a new start it's gonna be
better it's gonna be different when i'm
on the show it's gonna be different
after the show it's gonna be different
in our first single and then it's just
all the this domino effect of
kind of negative experiences was very
tough
and then also feeling like
i wasn't
uh
fairly represented in the group it's
horrible because again you can just
imagine
being 12 years old
you know you have this big dream then
you finally make it and it's not what it
seems also the label had so much control
over image and so all those factors it
took me a while to
really kind of be happy and again i
wanted to balance being grateful this
amazing experience traveling the world
being in front of thousands of screaming
fans um
getting to meet our favorite artists all
that
but also i had the
i have the right too to feel like dang
my voice is being lost in a moment where
i thought
my dreams were coming true does that
make any sense it does yeah i want to go
even deeper into that so i'd love to
know when you when you were young and
you were thinking about
fame or performing or like whatever that
was going to be what did you have an
image was it you in front of fans that
want to hear you sing was it just
actually the emotions you go through
when you sing a song what was it that
made that so interesting that you were
willing to work that hard for it
well just nine years old right away i
was super shy
at that age i
was only comfortable really in front of
my parents and in front of my friends
but elsewhere i was super shy i'd have
my back
um against the wall singing
and i i had to battle that for a long
time
but when i got on the stage for the
first time i felt
that that um feeling of how
the music made me feel of transforming
into a different version of myself
and seeing
the audience have fun and the audience
actually like it
and having that like confidence boost of
oh my gosh like
they liked it or the audience really
liked me
and
seeing the way music transformed people
i was so inspired by selena selena
quintanilla and
seeing her movie and the way she touched
so many lives including mine oh my gosh
she's my number one inspiration that's
what struck me the most and then
discovering that i could do
the same in a in a way
that was the most incredible thing so
kind of picturing myself
on the stage in front of so many people
us together connecting and having an
experience that no one can really
describe
um even though we may not know each
other
just having that music bond us forever
and
the way that just singing
makes me feel makes my heart
feel and my soul feel it
it's hard to describe but just this like
uplifting
in your spirit rising up
it's this beautiful image that i get and
i feel my heart
this electricity and mostly the way that
it moves people
that's the most beautiful thing so
having all that
and having a dream of one day being on a
stage of my very own touring on my own
creating music videos and writing and
creating songs that
make
my heart beat and that uplift people and
that are positive and fun and that kids
and moms and grandmas
could listen to and escape with and it
could make them
feel something beautiful inside and it
can physically and emotionally move them
that's those are all the images that i i
had as a young child
and
praise god i've been able to really
experience now it's been
overwhelming
how do you
define who you are
hold on to that definition
not be afraid to stand out when you're
getting thrashed on social media
it's it's so hard so
i i open up in my book about
just how much
cyber bullying i went through i mean
everything from body shaming to saying
oh ally's never going to make it she's a
least talented member
or saying
yeah making compilation videos of saying
that ally's a horrible dancer um
she has no like rhythm and
i smile too much and like all these
crazy things and it messes with your
mind i mean psychologically you just
it's like you lose your your soul
honestly and for me
uh
i dealt with you know the bullying uh in
fifth harmony the cyber bullying and all
that by crumbling
and turning to other things
but
then
gaining the strength inside of me to say
i'm gonna choose to listen to my fans
who are
supporting me and telling me to love
myself i'm gonna choose to listen to my
parents and them saying the same thing
and i'm gonna choose to listen to that
deeper voice inside of me that
says
turn it off like don't don't believe the
lies
i opened up about a very dark moment in
my book
several dark moments
that
i was embarrassed that i went through or
i turned to certain things but
um
by opening it opening up and sharing
that
i'm gonna help someone else someone who
feels like their only way to cope is
through drinking their pain away i mean
you know it's okay to have some wine and
you know i had a heart let me have a
glass of wine of course that's fine
but the way that i
tried to escape their alcohol was very
very dangerous
and
i wrestled with putting that in the book
so
there was a moment when um
there was so much going on around me
you know there's body shaming
the public having or it's felt like the
public having a perception of me of oh
she's the weakest member she can't dance
um
her you know she's uh
she'll never be anything more
and then also
internal things happening in the group
and feeling like i couldn't turn to
anybody for help um
these music executives i turned to one
for help and he ended up
uh being very inappropriate with me
and
i felt so humiliated and even more alone
many things were happening to where one
night i i opened up and
i uh i wanted to escape i wanted to
escape the world and i ended up drinking
myself to death basically i mean not to
death literally but i mean i literally
drank myself until i got sick because i
didn't want
to live in my world that i was living in
because of all the pain that i never
shared with anybody
and my manager came and found me
um i feel lost there's no hope i'll
never be happy um things will never get
better i mean truly thinking these dark
thoughts
and he was there to pick me up and to
comfort me
and to say hey ally listen i know it's
hard i see what's going on
i know it's brutal this business is very
very very brutal especially on young
women
i was reminded that there was hope and
that god was with me
how did you begin to rebuild out of that
like what do you so if the world is
filling your head with notions that
you're the weakest link that you're a
terrible dancer or that you're
struggling with your body image
and you're not reaching out to anybody
for help
now that you get it there's sort of that
wake up moment what begins to be the
internal dialogue that you have to build
this stuff back together is it just
everybody's wrong is it work ethic like
i can get better like how do you begin
to build in a new direction
well for me i had to just
honestly
dig deep and
to remember what my manager said his
name's will is that god was with me and
things would get better one day and i
had to choose to just continue fighting
each and every day
and showing up
and uh
it wasn't just the online bullying and
the names it was
a lot of stuff going on behind the
scenes too
and feeling like i had no one to turn to
i could trust anybody
the times that i did try it was met with
severe
just
opposition and no empathy
that made me feel trapped
and alone
and scared honestly
so all of those things swirling that
happened and then for
me
i well first of all i just felt really
i didn't feel good being that position i
never wanted to feel that way again that
that sorrowful that dark that um
that
out of it that um there's just this very
ugly sick feeling that you get when you
get to that point i don't know how to
describe it but it's very harmful and
and just toxic
um i don't want to have to go through
that again
and again just like
listening to those words and praying and
and
kind of being confronted with that
darkness and knowing that i could turn
to someone sometimes you just have to
write it out
like it doesn't mean the next day will
be better it doesn't even mean the next
month or maybe even the next year
but just riding it out and having that
mustard seed
of faith and saying you know what
i'm just gonna do my best to survive and
that's it i'm gonna try to to be present
to be used in the way that i'm allowed
to be used
to shine my light where i can even if my
lights dimmed right now
and just survive and and know that one
day a better day will come
and i had to do that for a very long
time
same thing same thing same thing and
then eventually opening up to my parents
and and talking to a few friends
and just listening to don't give up and
don't settle and sometimes you can't
change certain things or circumstances
but you certainly can
push through them and get through them
and eventually i came out of that very
dark place and what i called the great
sadness in my life
just by hanging on you know
talk to me about
the mustard seed what do you mean by
that
that means when you
when you're like hands to god and you're
like god what is going on why are you
allowing this to happen god i don't see
my life getting better
but deep down knowing that like there's
that much faith you have and letting
that grow over time faith that things
will get better
yes faith that things will get better
faith
faith that one day i will see the the
sun again um
you know so to speak
um
that's really what i had to hold on to
and things got worse
before they got better sadly i didn't
have one of those nights again but i
definitely had many more nights of
crying and feeling alone and feeling
hopeless
uh but just enduring it for as long as i
could and right when i felt like i got
i've gotta just
you know leave or change things
things began to shift and began to get
better and sometimes that's how so what
what actually shifted
because i'm thinking of the person right
now who's in the middle of that great
sadness they are in the storm of
darkness
and like them understanding
how to
push that shift along so that they can
help it to happen
but i think them understanding what it
was would be really useful
well
i feel like
one
there's many things but
one i found the people i could trust
people who would lift me up when i was
down people who were there for me people
who are encouraging me praying for me
um
two
i feel like slowly little by little i
began
personally to get certain validation
and uh
people um
give me some examples
yeah so people online being so much
kinder to me and not
body shaming me
celebrating me i felt like even in the
group
um
even something is as
small or what is insignificant but meant
a lot to me is being able to sing more
and be a part of the process more
and
being validated more in my voice and in
my talent and
in my writing little by little to shift
and building a community of people
around me that uplifted me and and spoke
truth into me spoke life into me when
you feel like
you're in a place where you're not
really getting that
and then you are like okay i'm gonna
stick it out and i'm gonna see if life
gets better
and it might take many years but it does
that's like
you just feel like you get your life
back your soul back your spirit back
um i hope i'm making sense
you're definitely making sense one thing
i want to talk more about
is the the notion of validation and
confidence
do you think that validation is a
necessary part of confidence or can you
develop confidence even if other people
are like this is the wrong direction
oh you can totally do both i mean i have
moments where
see for me sometimes and had to learn
sometimes my validation came from other
people a lot of it i'm a people pleaser
that's why
in in the group i didn't really speak up
for myself because i knew it would make
someone upset and for me in the long run
though that hurt me and that hurt my my
confidence the way i i looked at myself
and just just my happiness um but
i had to learn that
speaking up for yourself as long as
you're respectful and kind
eventually it will it will work and it
will pay off you know and um
and i had to learn that but also learned
that even if someone doesn't agree with
you you still have to stick with your
decision or your choice or whatever
yeah it's really it was really
interesting to follow you along in the
book as you go through all of this and
begin to build yourself back up and as
you go into the solo career and how much
intention you've had to have now to
get which is one of my favorite parts of
the book when you're going through
trying to get your solo record contract
and again yet another moment where i
think so many people would have given up
but you didn't and you double down and
you
you know take the notes and realize sort
of what wasn't working in the initial
pitch and and i want to talk about that
process and this is one of the things
that i think is is so extraordinary and
i think
anybody will benefit from reading the
book but i think especially young people
realizing that you have to have
intention in your life and you have to
decide who you want to be and the world
is not going to just embrace you with
open arms the world is going to
challenge you at every turn and it's
going to ask how serious you are about
who you want to become and what you want
to achieve
so as you thought about
really defining yourself
were there a handful of characteristics
that you knew like i'm gonna be leading
with these things
uh in those meetings label meetings well
more like when i think about your music
empowerment is one of the things that
comes to mind right when so many of your
contemporaries are sort of leaning on
the party scene and look you've got club
bangers and i'm not denying any of that
but there's you know uh there's a bit
more soul a bit more
sort of internal introspection to your
lyrics
and i just wondered how much of that is
you doing that intentionally
i assume it is on purpose
oh yes so it is so awesome listen being
a girl group had its uh advantages and
it also had its challenges and a lot of
that
was being controlled by so many people
so many cooks in the kitchen you know
i mean it's hard to make a move on your
own without kind of being
reprimanded and
all this crazy crap
i mean of course it had its beautiful
moments and i share that in the book too
um but
having that complete freedom as a solo
artist to be
who i wanted to be to
write about what i wanted to write to
have the music that i wanted to have my
intention
and especially when i met each label and
when i met charles chavez who is my uh
he's my manager but also he's the head
of my junior label so if you guys can
kind of
understand that i guess
um and so
i just shared my soul and i'm like
listen i want to
um
do all types of music of course pop
music
but you know i'm i believe in being
yourself and being sexy you know i am a
woman but also i i personally just don't
want to be sexual
and also having music that is uplifting
that is positive that is real
that was my goal in my dream and i
prayed for the right person to be behind
that to support that and
execute my my visions
and some people
you know don't
um
you know understand or they might try to
push you
um i've had songwriters who've tried to
get me to go one way but i've had to be
very much like
hey i'm sorry can we change it or i come
up with the change or
i'm in the end don't use that song or
whatever um but most people have been so
respectful and it's awesome you know
um but for me it was such intention
to to create music that
everybody can listen to
and feel good about
just knowing how much i went through and
and kind of thinking of that little girl
who may need that uplifting song or
positive message that's what i think
about in my music and you know i have
little cousins they're like
four years old
and
i think of them like okay what music i
want to leave behind for them to dance
to and to listen to and
to feel good about so that has been the
key
to
what i've built on my own and
and
i'm just so happy that
people see my music as positive you know
that's awesome and again you'll get the
full spectrum and the full
uh story by reading my book but knowing
that you can
not just survive but thrive
in the end
like
it's incredible
and and things can change
and
sometimes you may even stumble upon
something that you hadn't planned in
life but it ends up becoming one of your
most cherished memories or something
it's wonderful like if i could just
tattoo something or just tell the world
one thing is do not give up and do not
lose hope
because there is hope just
i pray that even in my story i feel like
i lived five lives is that showing
people that it is possible
to get to a place where you're healthy
and you're happy
talk to me about what not giving up
means so
you do dancing with the stars you
actually work your ass off to get really
good i mean
same thing with what you've done in your
career you like there's a real element
of work ethic to your story
so you've talked about two different
things you've talked about just holding
on having the mustard seed of faith that
there will be sun again but then there's
also the self-evident nature of your
work ethic and you don't really refer to
it as work ethic in the book but it's
pretty clear that that's what it is
um when you say don't give up are we
talking about being proactive are we
talking about just holding on
all of it i mean gosh
so
for example when i was you know looking
at all those
uh labels interviewing and was told by
my manager who was so nice you know
amanda at the time was so nice and
you're gonna have a bidding war you're
part of the biggest girl group in the
world get ready girlfriend and then all
those doors were shut and literally
there was pretty much no other option
for me as far as labels
and figuring out how
like
god am i gonna ever be able to release
music am i ever going to be able to sing
again if i don't have a home to
distribute that music to
to take care of the funds and the cost
that comes with being a
a female solo artist
um just having that moment of breakdown
choosing not to pack up and go home
even when i wanted to
uh
choosing not to stop music
choosing
even like songs songs that i thought
would you know
do better than they did or whatever
choosing not to
stop creating music you know keep on
creating music
um
choosing to continue to dance even when
people laughed at me
um
choosing to get up out of bed
the next day you know when there was a
loss or
you know a dark
moment or night that i had
choosing to stand tall in the industry
when i was scared that
someone about to to blackball me you
know someone about to to lie about me
um someone about to try to take my
career away from me many things just
choosing to
continue to live
and to continue to fight
through the good and the bad
that is all amazing it comes across
perfectly in your book
which by the way you did an amazing job
of walking people through the
difficulties and you know giving them
that mustard seed of hope and
some sense of how to begin to build back
where can i mean look you're very easy
to find but where can people find you
where can they get the book how do they
connect more deeply with you if they're
not already in the allegiance
i love you thanks you know my fan name
my fandom name that's awesome they're
called the allegiance uh
but yes y'all can follow me at ali
brooke on social media
a-l-l-y-b-r-o-o-k-e
and you can order my book finding your
harmony on amazon or wherever books are
sold
um
it's just
such a beautiful
thing for me and and not just for me but
for my family to
be in this moment to live it out i mean
there are so many stories about my
parents in here about my grandma
about my grandparents who are no longer
with us
and i just think of them and how proud
they would
be and how proud they are and they're
watching over me and
their story is going to be told in this
book and i'm so excited
for that so
sorry thank you guys
for um the love and support it means so
much and i hope that
through this book you can be inspired to
go after your dreams to not lose up to
not give up on yourself
um
and to know
that faith can change so many things
and i saw a lot of this in front of my
eyes even when
it felt like
there was
no hope um
so i really hope this can touch people's
lives
and uh god bless you guys thank you so
much
absolutely i have no doubt that it will
and guys speaking of something that will
touch your life if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe allie thank you so
much for joining me and guys until next
time be legendary take care
learned is
for the things that i'm wanting and
believing
i just have to do everything possible
that's within my power and there's some
things that aren't within my power and
that's where i trust god